---
layout: single
title: "Curriculum Vitae"
permalink: /curriculum-vitae/
author_profile: true
---

## Professional Profile
Capable of creating strategic training plans, improving individuals’ performance, and leveraging internal and external resources. Excellent communicator and colleague with the ability to lead a team. Strong work ethic that can help accomplish tasks and influence colleagues positively for efficient teamwork. Finely tuned analytical skills with extensive experience employing Microsoft Office and programming languages (R and Python)

## Education 
<p> 
  <span style="float:left;font-weight:bold;"> Alliance Manchester Business School </span> <span style="float:right;font-style:italic;"> Manchester, United Kingdom </span> <br>  
  <span style="float:left;font-weight:bold;"> Master of Science – MSc, Business Analytics </span> <span style="float:right;font-style:italic;"> Sep 2023 – sep 2024 </span>
  <br>
  2nd in the UK and 10 in the world ( QS 2022) <br>
  *Relevant Modules* |  
</p>


<p> 
  <span style="float:left;font-weight:bold;"> MIT Professional Education </span> <span style="float:right;font-style:italic;"> United States </span> <br>  
  <span style="float:left;font-weight:bold;"> Data Analytics </span> <span style="float:right;font-style:italic;"> Sep 2022 – sep 2023 </span> </p>
  
  * Presently belonging to the top 10% of my class. <br>
  * Completing a 15-week full-time Data Science Bootcamp with a partial scholarship from the MIT PE.  <br>
  * Build industry-valued skills, knowledge, and business-relevant technologies such as Python, Data Analysis & Visualization, Machine Learning, Time series Analysis, Random Forest, Recommendation Systems and Deep Learning.  <br>
  * Applied intricate statistical methodologies in real-world scenarios.  <br>


<p> 
  <span style="float:left;font-weight:bold;"> University of Manchester </span> <span style="float:right;font-style:italic;"> Manchester, United Kingdom </span> <br>  
  <span style="float:left;font-weight:bold;"> BA(Hons) Economics and Politics - *Upper Second Class Honours* </span> <span style="float:right;font-style:italic;"> Sep 2019 – Jul 2022 </span> <br>
*Relevant Modules* | Advanced Mathematics (83%), Microeconomics 3 (90%), Macroeconomics 4 (85%), Quantitative Methods (70%), Fundamentals of Finance (85%), Advanced Statistics (PRO) <br>
</p>

* Analyzed complex data to determine market and economic trends to navigate econometrics issues employing R.
* Developed and refined my writing and communication skills through the delivery of compelling presentations and the creation of +15 first-class essays
* Accomplished analytical skills by handling data-cleaning tasks and performing statistical analysis in the software package R.
* Prepared critical policy briefs and research on inequality studies, labour market trends and firm behaviour for Microeconomics using Microsoft Excel
for data administration and Microsoft Word for text processing.
* Applied clear, logical, and rational analysis to a wide range of concepts and approaches in the social sciences, and to a range of computational,
communication, literary and technical skills. 

<p> 
  <span style="float:left;font-weight:bold;"> The Northern Consortium (NCUK),  </span> <span style="float:right;font-style:italic;"> Lima, Peru </span> <br>  
  <span style="float:left;font-weight:bold;"> International Foundation Year (IFY) in Business Management </span> <span style="float:right;font-style:italic;"> Mar 2018 – Dec 2018 </span> <br>
*NCUK Modules (A-Levels Equivalent)* | Mathematics (A*), Economics (A), Business (A), EAP (A) <br>
</p>


## Skills & Interests  
**Tech Languages:** Python, R (Advanced); MATLAB, MySQL, HTML, SQL, CSS (Intermediate); JavaScript  (Beginner). <br>
**Specialist Packages:** NumPy, SciPy, Pandas, Matplotlib, Seaborn, SimpleITK, Scikit-learn, NetworkX (Python). <br>
**Tools:** Git, GitHub, R Studio, Anaconda, Visual Studio Code, Microsoft Excel, Microsoft PowerPoint  (Advanced); Microsoft Power BI, Tableau (Intermediate). <br>
**Interests:** Poetry writer of Love Kaleidoscope available on Amazon KDP. [(See Ebook)](https://www.amazon.co.uk/Love-Kaleidoscope-artistic-journey-sprectrum-ebook/dp/B0CDSW7L31/ref=sr_1_1?crid=3KJ0CE38ZV3IG&keywords=love+kaleidoscope&qid=1692387005&s=digital-text&sprefix=%2Cdigital-text%2C93&sr=1-1) <br>
**Languages:** English (Advanced), Spanish (Native), and Portuguese (Limited Working Proficiency).


## Professional Experience 
<p> 
  <span style="float:left;font-weight:bold;"> Indiana University </span> <span style="float:right;font-style:italic;"> Remote </span> <br>  
  <span style="float:left;font-weight:bold;"> Research Assistant of Cesar Salinas, Economics PhD. Candidate </span> <span style="float:right;font-style:italic;"> Sep 2022 – Mar 2023 </span> </p>
  
* Perform independent statistical analyses on data generated by research projects and assist in communicating the findings.
* Advised and assisted with survey designs and data collection from the Survey of Consumer Finances (SCF). <br>
* Received recognition by the researcher for the effort and hard work I put into delivering high-quality work upon deadline. <br>
* Imported, processed and administrated extensive data employing Python and SQL. <br>
* Managed and assisted the researcher on his Computational Economics course taught in Jan 2023 at the Research Institute in Economics and Finance where I learned more about software-based methods to solve analytical problems. [(RIEF)](https://ri-ef.com/summer-school-in-economics-and-finance-2023/) <br>

<p> 
  <span style="float:left;font-weight:bold;"> HFC Solution </span> <span style="float:right;font-style:italic;"> Lima, Peru </span> <br>  
  <span style="float:left;font-style:italic;"> *Finance Internship* </span> <span style="float:right;font-style:italic;"> Jun 2021 - Nov 2021 </span> 
</p>

* Analyzed the income statements and balance sheets and proposed 7 internal changes to make efficiencies in the production costs. 
* Executed weekly reports in Microsoft Office leading to improved internal and external management.
* Facilitated project management ad hoc tasks for clients enabling a streamlined implementation of the system. 
* Produced internal documents to address concerns from functional leads for clearer decision-making regarding system architecture.


<p> 
  <span style="float:left;font-weight:bold;"> MAB Peru </span> <span style="float:right;font-style:italic;"> Lima, Peru </span> <br>  
  <span style="float:left;font-style:italic;"> Tutor of high school and A levels students </span> <span style="float:right;font-style:italic;"> Jan 2021 – Jun 2021 </span> 
</p>

* Taught monthly: 1 to 3 groups of around 15 to 20 students each and one-to-one students’ mathematics, English and linguistics.
* Attained analytical and problem-solving skills by designing organized and coherent monthly reports for each student to hand out to the parents. I
received positive feedback from the head teacher for my outstanding and detailed reports. 
* Managed records and data in Microsoft Excel of all the groups of students I taught monthly – around 20 to 50 students per month. 
* Organized 3 workshops and designed the required training material, including producing presentations and handouts in a timely fashion.


## Extra-curricular

<p> 
  <span style="float:left;font-weight:bold;"> Shalom Catholic Community </span> <span style="float:right;font-style:italic;"> Remote </span> <br>  
  <span style="float:left;font-style:italic;"> Volunteer Web Developer </span> <span style="float:right;font-style:italic;"> Jun 2023 - Present </span>
</p>

* Currently in the process of creating a functional website to promote Shalom’s activities.
* Collaborating with Community leaders to ensure the website aligns with their vision and preferences.
* Implementing interactive features and user-friendly design to enhance user experience.


<p> 
  <span style="float:left;font-weight:bold;"> The Northern Consortium (NCUK) </span> <span style="float:right;font-style:italic;"> Remote </span> <br>  
  <span style="float:left;font-style:italic;"> Student Ambassador  </span> <span style="float:right;font-style:italic;"> Apr 2020 – Present </span>
</p>

* Developed interpersonal, communication and customer service skills through the 39 conversations had with prospective students as a representative of
the NCUK. Rated, on average, as ‘excellent’ by the prospective students.
* Achieved collaboration and professional skills by liaising with staff at the NCUK and other Ambassadors for official events where I verbally communicate with an audience of prospective students.
* Enhanced marketing, creative and social media skills through collaboratively working with the marketing department to produce 341 social media
posts used by the NCUK in their public communications.
* Planned, organized and time-managed myself to be able to fit this additional work around my studies whilst being able to meet all deadlines.


<p> 
  <span style="float:left;font-weight:bold;"> Other affiliations: </span> 
</p>
*Societies* - Peruvian society, Filipino Society, Enactus. <br>
*Volunteering experiences* – Holy Name Catholic Church Manchester,  InterCas  Chiclayo, Rotaract Lima, the Lions Club. <br>

## Certifications
IBM – Data Analytics with Python [(Certificate)](https://www.coursera.org/account/accomplishments/certificate/EEA3NEFSVYK6) <br>
Data Camp - Data Analysis in SQL (Using My SQL & PostgreSQL) (+35h) [(Certificate)](https://www.datacamp.com/statement-of-accomplishment/track/b52ab2494c44a1dfae1f963b250267d7f4e0c78e?raw=1) <br>
Data Camp - Power BI Fundamentals (+15h)  [(Certificate)](https://www.datacamp.com/statement-of-accomplishment/track/12d8b6f8a31edfd1b90bdf15bfa02c1086f7914f) <br>
KPMG Virtual Intership. [(Certificate)](https://forage-uploads-prod.s3.amazonaws.com/completion-certificates/KPMG%20AU/m7W4GMqeT3bh9Nb2c_KPMG%20AU_fHxSfigvAMp3fQ6Kh_1692723648433_completion_certificate.pdf) <br>
Data Camp - Associate Data Analyst [(Certificate)](https://www.datacamp.com/certificate/DAA0012489053946) <br>
University of Manchester – Bicentenary Social Impact – Nominated, Stellify Award – On track.
